---
layout: journal
date: 2025-08-04
tags:
  - prompt
  - relationships
title: Daily Prompt 1
description: "Today I answer the question: what am I grateful for?"
modified: 2025-08-20 15:10:49
created: 2025-07-28 10:29:57
status: published
private: false
series: Daily Prompts
series_order: 1
---
>[!NOTE]
>
>This entry feels particularly disjointed, but I am not here to proofread and edit my journal and thoughts more than I already have. I hope you can enjoy this, anyway!

I suppose I could mean two different things when I say "My Pack", and after giving it an entire few seconds of thought I'm grateful for both uses. On one hand, there's My Pack consisting of myself, my Owner, and my submissive pup. They are my immediate Pack and the one that comes to mind first.

On the other hand, I could use it in a more broad sense of a sort of family structure. My partner and I do not have kids and they are not in the plan. (I have a bit at the bottom about the child free thing.) However, my partner's best friend has two little girls and we have taken up the role as aunt and uncle to them. There have been several times already where I've felt those "proud uncle" moments or had my heart melt from the most adorable little hug. This extended family is a larger Pack in a way, because they're the people that I share a chunk of my life with. My partner's best friend, her partner, and their two kids are all part of my Pack because I'd do almost anything for them.

Regardless of which Pack we choose to analyze, I have reason to be grateful and I am honored to have such an incredible supportive community around me. We all are here for each other in the various capacities that we can provide assistance.

I'm grateful that I can be my genuine self around my Packmates and not be judged for my actions or things I say. Having an environment where I can "just be" after a long day of work, a hard call with my parents, or even after a busy day of running errands is one of the things I'm most grateful for. 

My partner and pup, in particular, have done amazing things for me and helped me through some tough times. I won't go into them right now, but I've had some moments of great stress, anxiety, fear, or depression that I've been able to overcome thanks to them. 

Lastly, I'm grateful for my partner who does everything she can to support me and the household domestically no matter the kind of day I'm having. It's a big load off my mind knowing that the everyday management of the home is handled by her. While we are far from traditional in many ways, she enjoys being a homemaker while I enjoy working. It's not at all the kind of relationship that I ever imagined myself in, but sometimes the unexpected things in life and the best.

Bonus grateful item: I'm grateful for the incredible pup and queer communities that I've found on bluesky. If you're one of those people, thank you for being yourself and showing me it's okay to be myself, too. 
#### Child Free Tangent
We're choosing to be child free because we like the lifestyle that we have and we like having the ability to really stash away money for the upcoming wedding and retirement. We don't live extravagantly and we don't go out and do things that often. In fact, we're pretty much homebodies, and I think we're both happy with that. We value saving up for things and not being in debt, and not having children helps with that.