---
layout: journal
date: 2025-08-21T13:15:00
tags:
  - prompt
  - work
  - clients
  - meta
  - distractions
title: Daily Prompt 3
description: "Today I answer the prompt: reflect on what's been on your mind lately."
status: published
series: Daily Prompts
series_order: 3
private: false
modified: 2025-08-25 15:48:23
created: 2025-08-21 13:15:20
aliases:
  - Reflect on What's Been on Your Mind Lately
moods:
  - annoyed
  - unfocused
  - restless
id: 01K3HBHT4W0FK3D28Y79J4ENSQ
---

> [!QUOTE] Prompt: Reflect on what's been on your mind lately.

There have been a few things on my mind lately, this week in particular.  Work has been one of them for sure since it takes up a third of my day.  The current big project we're working on has been very overwhelming just in the scope alone.  It doesn't help that the client is a pretty big pain and isn't interested in following our process.  Come on: you hired us to do something because of our expertise, but then you question how we are doing it.  It's not uncommon to have this sort of pushback as a consultant, but that doesn't mean it gets any less annoying to deal with.

I wouldn't say there's been this looming cloud over my head about work and I can usually push it aside when I'm able to be heads down on some code.  However, once meetings start piling up on the calendar or when we have a daily standup, I'm reminded of how much crap there is to sift through to get the system working well enough for the integration.

Currently, I'm using this journal to take a break from everything work related.  I added a new feature for archive pages where you can click on the month and year links in the breadcrumbs to see all the entries during that time period.  It's a little bit different than the sidebar since it gives the entry title, date, tag list, and a short description.

Another thing that's been on my mind lately is wedding planning.  There's not as much to say about this, ironically, but the whole wedding thing buzzes around now and then.  Nearly every time that it happens, there's a positive mood associated to it, so that's good.  It's just a lot to do.

I suppose the last thing that's been on my mind is wanting to keep up with my journal entries on here.  I think I'm going to do more daily prompts if I find I don't have anything in particular to write about or if I don't want to tackle any of the big ideas on the [[welcome|Welcome]] page.  I like the idea of tracking a streak as a way to keep me motivated, so let's see how well I can keep it up!

I have a bunch of entries from the Apple Journal app that I could add here, too, if anyone is interested.  They're not all that interesting, in my opinion, but it might be worthwhile to add them for completeness.