---
layout: journal
date: 2025-08-18T20:28:00
tags:
  - work
  - dreams
  - in_bed
  - monday
title: A Good Monday
description: Today was pretty good as far as Mondays go and I feel positive about the work I got done desite a rough start to the morning with bad dreams.
status: published
series: 
series_order: 
private: false
modified: 2025-08-20 15:25:58
mood:
  - productive
  - affectionate
  - calm
aliases:
  - A Good Monday
created: 2025-08-19 08:37:30
---
It's a Monday and normally I would be pretty drained from the day, especially considering I didn't sleep too well. However, I had a surprisingly productive day at work and I feel mostly upbeat! Right now I'm chilling in bed with my pup next to me after having a bit of fun together followed by some cuddles and a quick nap while partner is in the office playing a game. It's a really calm evening and a great end to a good day.

I had some rough dreams last night about my parents and some not so great things they said and did to me. Honestly, I'm probably making it sound worse than it really is, but those dreams still woke me up in the middle of the night with an uneasy feeling. One of them startled me enough that I immediately cuddled up with my partner and was shaking. The day went along well though, so I'd consider it not a big deal. Every now and then I have those sorts of dreams, but I normally don't dwell on them.

Like I mentioned above, work went really well with me feeling productive and in the zone. Today was mostly wrapping up the development of the first iteration on a way to keep two systems in sync. It's a bunch of framework stuff to make things easier in the future for the full implementation. It's the first time I'm doing this, so in sort of flying by the seat of my pants after grabbing some ideas and inspiration online as well as chatting with the architect at the client. I got all the unit tests that I wanted to write finished today and I was able to see the word PASSED in big letters by around 4:30. Feels good! I always like it when I get to flex my problem solving and coding muscles, and this was definitely not an exception. Tomorrow is going to be some real testing of it after I plug it in to a few points in the system.

Nothing else was very spectacular today, but I think that's okay! Not everyday needs to be exceptional throughout the whole day. In fact, I like the small parts of immense satisfaction I got today whether it was surprising my partner by taking care of the dishes this morning or wrapping up a week long coding session with a good first iteration.