---
layout: journal
title: Exciting Times Ahead
date: 2025-07-20
tags:
  - technology
  - meta
  - mental_health
description: My first journal entry just going over expectations and plans.
created: 2025-07-20T08:30:00
modified: 2025-07-31T08:30:00
---
Well, here it is, my first journal entry here.  I will not be making any promises about frequency or length of the entries, but I do hope to keep this up for more than a few weeks.
### The Shiny
You see, typically I get really excited about a new project, game, client at work, etc. and then that excitement dies down as time goes on.  I suppose that's pretty typical, but it gets really frustrating for me some days.  Here I am investing the better part of a weekend on something instead of just being a lazy pup.  On one hand, I do get enjoyment out of this sort of thing, which is sort of obvious.  If I didn't enjoy this, I wouldn't be doing it.  However, history shows that I will inevitably grow tired of this and the newness will wear off: this won't be shiny anymore.  I suppose that's just part of how ADHD works at the end of the day.  In the meantime, I'm proud of what I've done, I've learned a few things about GitHub Actions, Pages, and Jekyll, and this should be interesting for someone to read if they ever see it.

I'm honestly excited about this project and learning more about the technical side of all this.  That is half the reason I wanted to make a site from scratch instead of using a page like linktree for my socials and setting up a wordpress blog.  At my core, I like doing cool shit, and this kind of ranks up there a little bit already.
### What to Expect
While I am not here to set up expectations only to underdeliver, I do have some ideas of what I would like to use this for.
- Keep my writing skills sharp and improve on some of my creative writing skills
- Introspection and mental health improvement
- Sharing thoughts about topics that just cannot fit in a post on bluesky.

This is to be both a challenge for myself and a fun thing to do.  It's likely that this will naturally be a lot more tame than normal, but I've literally just added a tagging system for the journal entries to call out if an entry will touch on nsfw topics.

We will see where this goes and if it is actually something that I enjoy doing and others enjoy reading.  I'm not so much expecting the second, and in fact I will be surprised if anyone but that one gear dude I originally gave a journaling task to will read it.  At the end of the day, this is mainly for me.
### Looking Ahead
I already have some plans for future journaling topics around my mental health, my identity as a pup, why gear is so fascinating to me, and all the emotions that relate to planning a wedding.

---

If you ended up reading this, then let me know.  While this is mainly for me, I'm interested to hear about what others think of my ramblings while I'm getting my exercise on the treadmill or laying in bed.