---
layout: journal
date: 2025-08-15
tags:
  - travel
  - work
  - treadmill
title: Return from Austin
description: This past week I've been in Austin on a business trip and now I'm back.  Let's chat about it!
modified: 2025-08-15 19:38:54
created: 2025-08-15 19:28:42
---
First off, it's great to be back home in a familiar setting with my desk to work at and my bed to sleep in!  I'm definitely happy that I was able to go and meet my coworkers in person as well as other people at the company.

The trip was an on-site to discuss the upcoming year from a strategic perspective.  Our portion of the company is very small and more or less in a startup phase.  We're quickly reaching the point of growth where we need to scale differently than we have been as we are nearly getting more projects than we can comfortably handle.  It's an extremely exciting time to be here because I feel like I have an impact on the direction that the practice is going.  Overall, the meetings and dinner were comprised of people from operations, business development, sales, PMO, and delivery (me).  No, I don't mean delivery like a pizza guy: as a tech consultant and developer we deliver our service and see the project through to completion.

Everyone I met there seemed to be really invested in the growth of our smaller team as we carve our a larger and larger piece of the revenue pie for the company.  One of the biggest struggles we've had as a team is communicating the vast differences between our tech stack and platform from the rest of the company.  Our projects just don't fit into tidy little boxes because of how open and flexible the platform is: essentially there is a big difference in functionality between a CRM and an ERP.  Those differences in functionality lead to even bigger difference in requirements, what kind of project we are doing: new implementation, handle mergers and acquisitions, migrations, and so on.  Being able to demonstrate the differences and pain points has given the rest of the company the ability to support us the way we need it most.

That support is required frop