---
layout: journal
date: 2025-08-26T12:32:00
tags:
  - prompt
  - work
  - cringe
  - opinions
title: Daily Prompt 4
description: "Today I answer the question: what made you smile today?"
status: published
series: Daily Prompts
series_order: 4
private: false
modified: 2025-08-26T12:48:30-04:00
uuid: dee58d69-f271-407f-8b50-22b10b6c69dc
---
> [!QUOTE] Prompt: What made you smile today?

While this entry is not going to be nearly as deep as some other entries in my journal, I really wanted to share something funny I saw on YouTube. But before I answer the question, I want to give some context and personal opinion about the topic.

LinkedIn is something that I use only in the barest and most minimal way. I have my profile with my job history, certifications, and recommendations that I have received. I may have posted a few times about job changes and whatnot, but I am not someone that posts on LinkedIn with any form of regularity. There are a few reasons, I suppose: I never really know what to post about, there's never much to mention, and the platform is so full of cringe. I'm sure there are some really well thought out posts on LinkedIn that are of high quality, but I have yet to see them. Most of the time I see a lot of weird humblebrags and dick measuring contests.

Anyway, the thing that made me smile today was a channel on YouTube called [Business Cringe](https://youtube.com/@businesscringe?si=N51WY6vTM2iYvgaG). Okay, technically it made me smile yesterday and today, so I hope this still counts. If it doesn't, then feel free to bash me! The channel has a few really funny videos and shorts about cringey LinkedIn posts. I haven't laughed so hard at something corporate related in a while, since most corporate stuff just frustrates me these days. He goes over, in a humorous stick figure animation style, why LinkedIn sucks and mocks people who post on LinkedIn in typical situations.

I have to recommend the channel if you want some laughs and are in the corporate world or are adjacent to it. He also has a video about meetings that was pretty good, too. I'm sure a lot of people out there, even those not in the corporate world, have been in a meeting that was unnecessary or unbearable (or both): it's going to be quite relatable.

Anyway, this is a short entry to a short question. Not much to share today as I'm busy working on some new IP for work and I'm busy coding away on a new tool. I hope you all have a great day!

Side note: there is, apparently, enough cringey LinkedIn content out there that GPT is pretty good at generating it.