---
layout: journal
date: 2025-09-08T09:53:00
tags:
  - prompt
  - monday
  - work
moods:
  - tired
  - pessimistic
  - uneasy
title: Daily Prompt 6
description: "Today I answer the question: what kind of day do you want this to be?"
status: published
series: Daily Prompts
series_order: 6
private: false
uuid: 74f8756e-a5c9-4812-b066-22c9a5896595
modified: 2025-09-08 10:02:36
created: 2025-09-08 09:52:46
---
> [!QUOTE] Prompt: What kind of day do you want this to be?

I'm not very optimistic for how this day is going to go given the status of the current project at work, the fact I have a meeting about something not working early in the morning, and my lack of sleep last night.  At this rate, I'd be happy if today goes even "okay" given what I'm up against.

The more unknowns and the more up-in-the-air things are, the more uneasy I get.  It may be a crazy thing, but I really like to have an understanding of what is expected as opposed to this nebulous blob of hand waving that doesn't result in any form of concrete requirements.  Telling me that there needs to be a way to approve or reject deals in Salesforce through Slack is certainly something, but it's more of a high level user story than a functional requirement.  There's a lot more that goes into the approve/reject thing than just saying it needs to be done in slack and that is what is concerning to me.  It feels like a trap where the goalposts are going to be moved.  If that sounds silly, well then I'd like to introduce you to the latest client we have.  If that sounds familiar, then I'd like to welcome you into the club where we can be miserable and grumbly about clients together.

I hope this week goes well, but I'd settle for getting through today, and may the day after that if I am lucky.