---
layout: journal
date: 2025-09-10T21:31:00
tags:
  - technology
  - meta
moods:
  - tired
  - affectionate
title: Small Updates
description: It's late and I want to keep up my posting streak, so here's something short about the happenings of the site
status: published
series:
series_order:
private: false
uuid: b2d9ff37-0176-469a-81b9-f85739423b56
---
There have been some exciting developments over at my site, but hopefully nothing really changes on your end!  I've migrated over to using Cloudflare to host the site, but it is still built inside GitHub Actions thanks to the amazing caching of ruby and node dependencies.

I've been slowly figuring out how to write a plugin for Obsidian, the tool I use to write all these journal entries, so that it will automatically generated a UUID for each entry, but I'm having some string manipulation issues that I can't seem to pin down.  So in the meantime, I'm generating the UUIDs one at a time as I write an entry.  It ain't much, but it's honest work.

Most of the assets for the site are moved off the repo and are stored in a bucket.  I don't know if this is strictly necessary, but it has been a lot of fun exploring new things on the web development front.  Well, okay, new for me, anyway.

There are some things I've been thinking about doing to the site now that I can leverage some additional tools inside the Cloudflare ecosystem a little better.  Nothing to mention yet as I'm trying to figure my way out around the whole serverless thing.  Honestly, most of web development is still a mystery to me, I'm very much more of a desktop developer as well as doing stuff on Salesforce for work.  This is all really fun to learn and explore, but there's just a lot to wrap my head around.

Speaking of work: it's going pretty okay.  I'm making decent progress on the project despite technology's best efforts to slow me down.  Okta, in particular, is enjoying being a thorn in my side, but what else is new.

It's getting late (for me anyway), so I'm going to wrap things up here and call it a night.  I hope you all have a great evening or whatever time of day you're reading this!