---
layout: journal
date: 2025-09-09T15:41:00
tags:
  - treadmill
  - work
  - taco_tuesday
  - teamwork
  - technology
  - meta
moods:
  - stressed
  - annoyed
  - productive
title: Work Rambles on Taco Tuesday
description: I'm just rambling about work stuff now, apparently.
status: published
series:
series_order:
private: false
uuid: 9b2d418b-2b94-415e-9928-f68aff630fe5
modified: 2025-09-09 16:05:33
created: 2025-09-09 15:40:47
---
> [!INFO] Journaling Music
>
> [Adventures - Hyper Potions, Subtact](https://open.spotify.com/track/7of5vqDVelR7W0GVohpnk5)
> [Wake Up, You're Dreaming - Notaker](https://open.spotify.com/track/6IilOt8IAEuoy8yMpUVrzG)
> [Endless Fantasy - Original Mix - Rhodz](https://open.spotify.com/track/4E9xaRWvHJGmhv7H0oGIgr)
> [Beneath Us - Original Mix - MitiS, SubLion](https://open.spotify.com/track/0Yv8KzstdxkSG9IZir4fnm)
> [Flashback - Approaching Nirvana](https://open.spotify.com/track/60vkNlkIz0TlqpHXbADmst)
> [Drive Hard - PrototypeRaptor](https://open.spotify.com/track/7qBQiFm4vm633vO4XbXQKC)

This is definitely going to be one of those weeks that has its ups and down.  It really does feel like I'm on a rollercoaster with how I am making progress one hour and then blocked by something stupid the next.  I will say that if there's one thing to take away from all of this, it would be to celebrate the little victories.

I sat down at my desk this morning and was horrified to see that it was only Tuesday.  Yesterday was such a wild day of meetings and struggling with technology and code that I honestly thought it was at least Wednesday this morning.  On the bright side, I can look forward to the deliciousness that is Taco Tuesday.

Back to work stuff, though.  It's a bit weird: I don't have an enormous amount of work on my plate, but a lot of it is dependent on other people getting their stuff done.  Normally, this isn't much of a problem because we're pretty good at project management, but dealing with clients having stupid processes just for the sake of process gets old really fast.  It's always different when the dependency you have is on an external team and only worse when it's a team on the client.  It's like the combination of now having visibility into the progress as well as having an unfamiliar process makes things more frustrating.  I basically lost two and a half days waiting for access to the client's GitHub repo so that I could create a commit and pull request to move org metadata and code up along the pipeline.  I was able to make the most of that time by working on some other pieces of my task, but I can only do that for so long.

Come to think of it, I guess the other bit of good news, in a way, is that it is *only* Tuesday.  If it were further along in the week, I'd have less time to do my piece before the onsite and demo on Monday.

I finally got the access I needed this afternoon after setting everything up in a different sandbox to do additional testing of the data sync between two orgs.  I don't know what it is, but I always have to wrestle with Salesforce's OAuth bullshit when it really should just be as simple as authenticating a token or two.  But, hey, I have some integration tests both passing and failing successfully, so that's another plus.  Yes, I just wrote "fail successfully" and, yes, I know it sounds funny.  But it's true!  I wanted to see a scenario fail and error out properly with the error written back to the source org properly.  What am I going to do if there's an error writing back to the source org? don't ask me those kinds of questions right now.  That's a problem for tomorrow.  (Coincidentally, I still have an error reporting mechanism built into the middleware, so that's good enough for now).

This has been such a rambling journal entry, but that's sort of where my brain is at right now.  There's a bunch of stuff going through it and I just wanted to take some time, while on the treadmill and taking a short break from work, to write down how I'm feeling.  I suppose not every entry is going to having some grand story to tell or deeper message to go over, huh?

Every few minutes I tap my work phone screen next to me to make sure I'm not needed somewhere while I do this sort of thing.  I really do consider myself fortunate to have the kind of job that I do, especially being able to work from home full-time.  I will say, it's not always easy and fun times, as you can probably see in the journals around this time.  I definitely have days where there's not much to do and I get to do some work on personal side projects or work on tools I use at work to make my life easier.  But there are times like this where it's all hands on deck to get something done before a big demo next week.

Oh, and I've brought back the journaling music thing for today's entry because it's nothing too serious.  I really need to write a tool to automatically capture the song information, though.  Currently, I have a plugin in Obsidian that connects to Spotify and creates a bunch of text based on a template I provide, in this case a link with the song and artist names.  Maybe someday I'll be smart enough to figure that out!